and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth
show i'm your host sam dunning co-owner
over at webchoiceuk.com and today i'm
joined by
michael haynes michael is a sme business
growth
specialist his focus and passion is
empowering ceos
of service-based companies to acquire
b2b clients
and achieve the growth they seek through
business innovation
and sales michael a very well welcome to
the show sir how's it going
i'm very well thanks sam thanks for
having me on the show no worries man so
looking forward to it
and we're gonna be chatting through two
not one but two low-cost and highly
effective marketing strategies
that every business needs to be
implementing from today
so michael let's let's not be around the
bush let's jump straight into it what
are these strategies
and why do we need to be thinking about
them uh
sure sam so the two strategies that i
believe every business particular are a
group of sme small
medium-sized businesses should be
implementing are advocacy marketing
and influencer marketing and these are
two strategies that when you're
operating
in the b2b context in which you're
trying to get those
business clients and customers you
really want to be in
uh leveraging these strategies uh the
reason why sam
uh for advocacy marketing uh first of
all we'll talk about and advocacy
marketing is about everything
those that uh your clients uh your
clients are rating fans that are really
showing your business to love
it's really leveraging them uh to help
build and grow your business
because in b2b referrals is one of the
key ways
that business clients and customers um
how they go about seeking the products
and services that they seek
got it so starting with adverse advocacy
marketing
so we're we're talking about leveraging
our existing customers our existing
clients are we
absolutely absolutely it's really about
leveraging them
to help promote your business and there
are two
key ways you can do so um
being referrals and uh ref and customer
uh references
so referrals is about getting uh
your clients and customers uh to refer
refer your business to you
and referrals is a key way as i've said
before sam of how you can acquire
clients and customers
um and this is about leveraging it
through various ways
it could be through case studies um
referrals can be through uh uh various
ways um and you wanna be
the key to doing so is to be making sure
that you have a system for referral so
it's easy for your clients to refer you
so that's really the key
is having a referral process set up okay
and is there a process that you'd
recommend michael that we need to kind
of be considering about are there some
best practices
um rather than just jumping in saying
we've got like 30 clients on the books
just sending them pinging them all off
an email saying
give me a give me a reference or give me
a recommendation i really want some
more clients is there a strategy
that's that's going to give us more
success and ultimately send more
customers our way
yes so great question sam so it's really
about making sure that you make you set
it up and make it easy to
uh for your clients to refer so you need
to be uh
arming them with the right kinds of
information so first of all you need to
let
those clients know what kinds of
organizations you're looking for
what kind of roles and titles are you
looking for in the organization so are
you looking
to reach out to ceos uh operations
managers what have you
uh you want to be making sure that it's
very clear what are the problems
and challenges that you helped solve for
the ideal kind of client of kind of
problems that you're solving
so making sure you're very clear on
those three questions that you provide
that information
to those uh customers that you want to
refer
okay also you need to be making it sound
easy to refer
so it's very important that you make it
easy
uh ideally with a preferred way that's
gonna be easy for those target groups
uh to refer to you so it might be uh
setting up an online portal
where they can be putting the details in
it might be via email where you want to
set up some templates
uh whereby they can just easily populate
um the the type so yeah
the name the types of organization the
rules etc uh it might be by phone so
making sure you provide the right kinds
of information so they're clear on
what to refer and making sure you use
the right kind of channel
and setting that up yeah um sam as well
it's also very important that you also
have a process for capturing those
referrals
and there's follow-up so it's good to
designate within your teams
to have a designated person as a
coordinator so
for example with one of the clients one
of my clients when we're working to set
this up
we had a marketing coordinator who was
designated as kind of that central point
of contact
to capture those referrals making sure
they were being fed off to the sales
team
also feeding back to those who referred
to you
to say thanks for the referrals as well
and making sure that there's there's
follow-up
communications with those uh referees to
making sure that the sales can do those
initial contacts
gotcha and is there a best time michael
where we need to actually ask for
the referral itself is there a a
specific point in time
when it's it's going to be most
effective rather than perhaps
or maybe it is when we've perhaps just
engaged with the customer and we've just
literally won their business they've
maybe signed the contract made the
deposit
is that the time do we have to wait
until we've delivered the job is it part
way through is
is there an optimal time um another
great question sam
um my recommendation has been that you
want to um
the time to act on to asking for
referrals is at those points of delight
so within a project
if for example after you've hit a
particular milestone so again using
example one of my clients um
in an i.t context um one particular plan
they had a big transformation project
and it was after one of the second key
milestones um because they were actually
the second it firm that had gone in with
this organization
um after that second milestone was
achieved that they went and asked
uh for the referral so picking at good
junctures where you've delivered
uh some good outcomes so at some key
milestones
and possibly at the end of the
conclusion of the project um
those times where there are points of
delight where you've kind of gotten some
significant accomplishments some
progress are good times to do so i don't
recommend
uh you know the day after you've just
signed the contract and saying hey
by the way thanks for the work uh thanks
for giving us a contract now who can
refer to
so it's really about yeah being quite
timely and trying to find those
what i call the points of delight where
you've hit some significant muscles or
good times to
try and reach up and ask for referrals
yep that makes sense
okay so hitting a point of delight and
then
like you mentioned like you touched on
michael giving a clear idea
of who the type of business or the type
of perhaps job title that you do want
them to refer
um and then is that in the case of
we need to kind of call them up and ask
for them or do you
send them an email do we send them a
linkedin message is there any strategies
that you found most effective in terms
of actually the literally ask
and uh the channel that is sent through
um yes so again it's all about making it
easy to refer
and trying to utilize what is best that
is going to be easiest for those
uh for clients so in some cases it's
about setting up an email
a preform template so literally they're
just putting in the information of
um you know in terms of the type of the
organization the title
um you know the uh challenges that that
particular company is looking to have
solved
so making it really so uh so templated
forms either
online by email often are really good so
that
it's easy to refer so they don't really
have to um do a lot of thought well what
you know how should i construct the
referral it's like oh okay
um i've got a name of a company in mind
it's this organization
this title md and the challenges they're
looking to solve are x y and zed
so it's very easy um for that
for the referrer to make the referral on
your behalf
got it yeah just make it nice and easy
and
how often should we be be asking for
referrals is it just a case of every
time we do a project
or every time we're delivering a product
and with that specific customer
once once like you say they hit a point
of delight once we know they're happy
we've done a great job then we ask can
we just make that a habit
for each and every customer that we work
with we just put that into kind of our
workflow
as a as a system that we follow
um yes i mean you definitely want to be
building that as a
as a system to be identifying those
points of delight but
you can also do it very on a softer
level through your communications to
your client and customer base
through your uh emails and newsletters
for example
um to at the end you can say you know
have like a ps at the end of let's say
your monthly newsletter
uh you know if you're aware of other
companies who are experiencing
challenges in x y and z
and give them a call to action uh here
here's here the call to action here's
the contact point so leveraging some of
the contact some of the information
communications you have going out to
your customer base is also a great way
to be
uh incorporating generating those
referrals
and do you recommend because i know some
businesses and we've done it in the past
here at webchoice
offer like uh some kind of kickback
or commission or bonus so for example
having a
scheme whereby if you
pass us a customer or you pass us a
recommendation or an introduction
um then we'll give you like a discount
or we'll give you a bonus or give you
something off your next service or
it's just the fact that we've delivered
a really good service and we know
they're happy
is that enough to just say please can
you intro someone you feel might be a
good fit to help us out
great question sam so in terms of the
whole advocacy program
um because referrals are one the
second part is is customer references as
well
um but you want to be providing
incentive but really incentives that are
going to deliver value
to those key um customers those
advocates
and so as opposed to yes you could do
financial but
far more now business leaders ceos
they're really looking for added value
to help build and grow their business so
if you can provide them opportunities
let's say for let's say uh access to
some of your executive forms and
roundtables
um opportunities perhaps to maybe come
on board and have customer visits
um joint workshops um free trials
co-creation of content so you might be
uh hosting a summit and they may have
the opportunity
as a customer that shows you love to be
able to spotlight and be on your podcast
or be on your in personal virtual summit
so those kinds of value ads that are
really going to be helping your clients
really is a far more impactful way to um
kind of generate and provide rewards
that's really going to build
and grow your relationship and really
further incentivize
uh those advocates to really be the
ambassadors for your your company
now i guess it makes your business more
profitable as well because instead of
giving a discount or a chunk off the
the price you're um giving them
something that's actually going to be
genuinely useful for them
and at the same time you're not cutting
a a slice off the the rate or giving
them something free
you're giving you're looking to to what
might be genuinely valuable and i'd
i'd add an extra layer to the service
you're providing so that makes sense
um okay and it's so we've talked about
kind of when to ask for referrals how to
do it how to capture them
um is there a good way or a good
practice michael in terms of actually
following those up so perhaps once we've
got
the referral to actually tackle it when
we go to
speak to the prospective customer that's
been introduced
oh yeah well you definitely want to be
making sure that you're managing
uh and you have like i said a
coordinator who's really uh managing so
you know leveraging your crm systems
um and there are also on some specific
uh customer advocacy
uh programs and software's that you use
so that you can be really managing
those interactions that you're having
with those uh referees to make making
sure that you're making those contacts
and and it's trying to initiate those
conversations so having a central point
of contact to be making sure
that that that nurturing and that
follow-up is occurring is quite
important to me
to make sure that those conversations
and those interactions definitely take
place
sure and is it just a case of kind of
simple follow-up just saying look thanks
thanks for the intro
dropping them an email giving them a
call and there's no there's nothing kind
of more to it than that nothing over
complicated and just tracking it in srm
nothing apart from that we need to
consider um well you you definitely want
to be tracking but
as always when you're trying to do any
form of you know prospecting in a bdb
context
you know where you can be really
demonstrating um how you're going to add
where you can add value in terms of by
providing some
insights by providing what i call sense
making there's been a lot of what i call
sam
content vomit in the last year where
people just been spewing out
lots of white papers and so forth so
senior leaders
really now are looking for navigation of
making sense of all of
all of this content that they're getting
from all the experts so where you can
as part of that uh outreach to get those
conversations where you can provide some
insight
some sense making ask you did you know
this is what's happening in your
industry or these are the kinds of
things
here are two or three ways we may be
able to help you that's really going to
be helping
in getting those conversations and
really progressing the engagement
uh with those uh uh referrals that
you've been given
gotcha gotcha that makes sense so with
these things all in mind is there
anything else that we need to consider
on the references on the referral side
of things do we need to think about
asking for testimonials and those kind
of case studies as well before we jump
into
the next part of this yeah so yes
customer references is another component
of your advocacy program
and that can be things like case studies
that can be things such as testimonials
um it could be the opportunity for um
utilizing uh current clients that
prospects enacted call
to find out well what was it like to
work with sam um so really leveraging
those
um as part of your reference program and
all of those sams should be very much
defined
based on your target customers that
you're going after
what do activities they undertake as
part of their buying decision process so
if they like to talk to previous clients
then that should be part of your
reference program
if it's case studies uh video
testimonials then that should be
uh the components you're building in to
those uh into your reference programs
customer visits
so really making it align to how your
target buyers
like to buy that will really define
should define what your customer
reference program
is all about got it and i don't want to
spend too much time
in terms of actually asking for a
reference or testimonial or case study
is it much the same as asking for a
referral introduction we just wait for
perhaps another time perhaps we've
delighted them early in the project and
then we've
perhaps come later on to delivery and we
know they're really happy because we've
got everything implemented well and then
we say look
could you perhaps give us a testimonial
or could we could we do a little uh
zoom interview with yourself um any any
best practices in terms of kind of
key questions that we should be asking
that you've found have been really
effective with your
your own customers or your own clients
in terms of their testimonials ie
if you ask xyz we know it's going to be
a good reference rather than them just
saying
look michael did a really good job um
yeah
great so with respect to testimonials uh
you really want to really try to have
them demonstrate
um what was the experience it was like
to work with you as a service provider
and also start and giving and showing
that transformation so
what was the situation where were you
where were you at before
started working with you sam what was
the situation what were our problems or
challenges
uh how did you help us make that
transformation so what
what what activities were undertaken to
take us from
where you want to go from a to b let's
say it's you know
um increasing client uh client spends so
where were we at before
what were some of the activities that
were undertaken by that service provider
what was it like
and what was it what was the outcome so
really taking them on that journey of
before
what was undertaken and what was the
outcome um and
maybe a little bit about the experience
of the engagement are really the
components of what you go into
a testimonial gotcha so kind of before
during after to give you a little
snapshot of you know the problem they
had
how you help them overcome it and i
guess what life's like now
yes and what and where you can
demonstrate you know what was the impact
and
and the more you can quantify that you
know and
you know increase customer spend um
increase market share profitability
where you can quantify that
is all the better and even stronger but
yeah but it's really demonstrating that
that transformation and that impact
and that same would apply if it's a
customer call where they want to speak
to
uh one of your uh clients to understand
the experience
of working with you same principles
apply good stuff
all right so that's advocacy marketing
moving on to
number two of the strategy we've got
micro influence and marketing so
tell us a bit more about that michael
what does that actually mean let's let's
break it down a bit
sure uh sure sam so when we're talking
about micro influencer marketing
not talking about the kim kardashians
you know famous people we're talking
about within your
in your world so you know if you're in
the biotech space
whatever industry you're in it's really
about identifying
the go to within your industry and the
go-to's where your target
buyers so target decision makers so who
are they
listening to uh what are they watching
what are they reading
so you know so what industry and
professional associations are they going
to and who are the ones that are writing
the articles the case studies
presenting at those events that are
doing the
industry uh podcast uh and blogs
so the go to that your target buyers are
going to
um whether listening to reading and
watching them in your world
99 of the world would have no clue who
these people are but within your
industry
they're regarded as the go-to those are
the people that you want to be
looking to identify and work with uh
to help build and grow your business
gotcha okay
so finding i'd like to say not the kim
kardashian but the industry leader
or such that you know that you're i'd
target customers your potential buyers
are going to be tuning into or engaged
in
makes sense so yeah so examples of that
sam would be
you're looking at your industry and
professional associations for example
so who are the ones that are presenting
uh doing the webinars presenting at the
big conferences
via virtual or in person um
who are who are you know doing some of
those feature articles in the
publications
who are the ones that are hosting those
industry blogs and podcasts
um it's those sorts of people that you
want to be looking
to and identifying so your industry and
trade association publications
your blogs your podcast are some key
go-to places
uh those that are running the online
groups and online communities within
your industry
who are heading those up those are the
kinds of people and places you'll be
looking to target those micro
influencers got it
got any any best practices in terms of
honing those down if we're completely
new to this michael
and this is something we've literally
just heard of on this podcast now
are there any ways we can go about
discovering these any
perhaps strategies you've had success
with and i guess coming on this podcast
is one of them for you
yeah yeah so um i would say really uh
if you're new to it is to identify and
do a google search to find out you know
the industry association
for your industry so if you're in it and
you're look at you're located
in in the uk so uh information
technology
associations united kingdom ready to go
information technology association
london see what comes up as your
industry and professional associations
and start from going on to that website
and looking to see
um look for the events and seeing who's
presenting at those events if there are
publications
who are doing some of the writing of the
articles uh
uh longer pieces and start from there
that's often a very good starting point
got it okay so we appreciate if you
mentioned a few things like looking to
get on industry
specific um things like the blogs maybe
some podcasts maybe some webinars
maybe some kind of publications are
there any ways
in terms of actually making sure we
reach out effectively um to these people
because i
imagine that depending on the industry
we're in some of these things could be
either
very very niche and they might be quite
easy to reach out to let's say the
decision maker that controls the
whether it's a podcast in case that's
just me you need to speak to
um whether it's quite uh maybe a
well-known blog maybe it's a huge
webinar
anyways that you've had success with
michael in terms of actually reaching
out to the people we need to talk to
to get ourselves in front of these these
customers that we want to be
i guess showcasing our brand showcasing
our our product that we know we talk
we're talking about and
um kind of building awareness of
ourselves our company
uh sure great question sam look i'll be
honest it is going to take a bit of work
you need to do some research
uh so that you really can um identify
uh you want you want to you need to be
doing research and understanding
what's the how can you add value to them
so you really need to understand
um that particular industry and for that
particular potential influencer what are
some of their key areas of focus
what are they trying to achieve and how
might you be able to add value to them
and to their audience um so it could be
uh providing some insights to them it
could be looking at opportunities
on how you might collaborate to create
content like getting together
um and doing a joint live stream show or
or writing an article together so it's
really about doing the research and
understanding
that influencer what are they focusing
on what is their audience looking for
and then really showing how you can add
value to their
audience and to them got it okay so
taking the time to actually understand a
bit more about what they're doing
so if it was a podcast or a webinar or
something some kind of media
understanding who they are who their
audience is how you can work together
and i guess demonstrating that in your
outreach whether you call them
whether you send them a video message or
whether you send them an email
to show that you understand their world
and how you want to be involved and
i guess that there's a win-win for both
parties um
sorry no you go ahead um sam just i want
to point just a couple things
um when we're talking with micro
influencers they're very much
open and looking and keen to collaborate
um where there can be a mutual win-win
situation because again
this is talking about micro influences
we're talking about
you know often it's very niche within
your industry this is not like i said
dealing with the kardashians of the
world so when you're talking about
subject matter specialists
very niche they're very open and keen to
working with others to
help uh mutually deliver value to their
audiences
to mutually gain additional exposure so
they're quite open and willing
to work together but you really have to
demonstrate how you're going to be able
to add value
to them it's a great point um without
going off on too much of a tangent i can
certainly vouch for this process as i've
fairly recently i suppose i i say that
because we're fairly busy running web
choice we're busy with this podcast
so from time to time i've got a list of
the top i think it's 50 or 100 marketing
podcasts that run
so every i don't know a few weeks i'll
send a few cold emails
to people that control these podcasts so
i can basically speak on these
why do i speak on them i'm not doing it
for fun i'm doing it because my
potential buyers
are listening to these marketing
podcasts i can show that occasionally i
know what
what i'm talking about when it comes to
websites seo digital marketing
and from that over time it builds up our
brand
builds up my personal brand and every
now and then we'll get inbound inquiries
for web choice
likewise i did a little webinar a while
back
which was incredible i've never seen
results like this before michael i got
invited to this webinar
um just talking about i think it was
unusual ways to grow your business with
marketing
and again basically just shared some
lesser-known tips to to grow your
website leads and build conversions on
your website
before the webinar even finished we had
three inbound leads for our website and
one person called us
insane never seen results like that
before that was that was from a webinar
but it just shows
these are all free strategies that you
can do yourself you just to do a little
bit of research
and the results are proven yeah and
you're absolutely right sam because
you know right now business growth
trying to build your business and
understanding
what are the roadmaps what are the
options and ways of doing so
is something that lots of business
owners and leaders senior managers are
looking for
so when you can give some really
innovative some really effective ways
of how to take action and demonstrate
that through your content
uh through whatever forms that's really
going to resonate uh when you can help
show what's a road map what's the
pathway uh
for them to achieve their objectives
it's it's very impactful because that's
really what leaders are looking for
now is what's the road map what's the
way forward in this uncertain
new norm that we're now in yeah yeah
yeah and
i'm myself and i'm sure some people when
they hear the word influencer
sometimes we think of kind of paid
promotion as well
um so over the likes of instagram you've
got quite a lot of
influences influencers are perhaps doing
paid things for certain products and
services whereby they'll get
some kind of monetary reward for
promoting something but all these
strategies we've talked about now
michael
are they are they free in the sense that
all you've got to invest is your time in
terms of the research and
connecting with the the right
accreditation or blog or podcast or
webinar
and then spending your time to give that
value when you do and
engage so they generally free of charge
from your experience or some of them
paid for
um activities so great question sam and
again this is b2b
and so very much it is about free and
i'm putting free in air quotes
because it is really showing about how
you're going to really co-create to
deliver value
to deliver business value so um no it's
not about making monetary outcomes but
it's really about how are you going to
really help
that that influencer who could be you
know a journalist
podcaster someone an association how
you're going to help them
and their audiences achieve their
commercial objectives so
it's all about really delivering really
tangible commercial value
that's going to be actionable um so yeah
so no there's not necessarily the
monetary investment but you really have
to invest that time and effort
and really looking at how you can
mutually co-create
innovate and deliver value for that
influencer and their
uh target audience got it well this this
has been incredibly valuable michael
and especially this micro influencer
parts there's a lot of great takeaways
here
just before we wrap up are there any
further additions that
myself everyone tuning in needs to
consider before we get stuck into
asking our customers for recommendations
referrals and then start hitting up
micro influencers
in our industry where our customers are
gonna be hanging out
um sure the one key point that underpins
all of both your advocacy influencer
strategy and any ultimately b2b strategy
that you want to be doing
is that you must be buyer driven you
must identify
who are the target decision makers for
your products and service category
within
your industry and really understand who
they are
what's important to them and how they
buy so do that listening
gain that understanding and that will
give you the basis for how you do your
advocacy marketing your micro influencer
strategies
and other strategies to drive growth
within your business in a b2b context
awesome awesome and on that note michael
please do tell us more about how we can
learn from you how we can connect with
you and the best way to get in touch
with your good self sir
sure so the best way to uh contact me uh
well
contact me is two ways one i'm very
active on linkedin so you can look me up
on linkedin
uh but really for all things b2b about
how to use
business innovation sale to be buyer
driven to drive growth
go to my website listeninovategrow.com
uh where you'll find a whole raft of
articles
videos testimonials as well as an
overview of some of the services
uh that my company provides so listen
innovategrow.com
brilliant stuff and we'll put all of
those links over on the show notes
at businessgrowth.marketing i want to
thank you once again for coming on
michael really enjoyed it
thanks for having me sam it's been a
pleasure no worries and if you enjoyed
the show
be sure to hit subscribe to business
growth show wherever the heck you get
your podcast from we interview business
leaders each and every week
to provide actionable marketing tips to
help grow your business
and grow your revenue and with that
we'll catch you on the next episode